---
layout: post
title: Coding Challenge Completed!
---

Greetings everyone, I have just turned in a coding challenge for a front end developer job here in good ol' Charlotte, North Carolina.  My original intentions with my development career was to be more of a full-stack developer, building both back end and front end features, but this challenge made me remember how much I enjoy front-end.

This challenge was cool - they gave me some screenshots of a photoshop designed webpage and told me to build a page based on that with just HTML, CSS, Javascript and Jquery.  There was a tab sidebar and login modal that needed to be designed from scratch along with a table that needed to be populated with an API call.  I was hyped that there was some request/response work involved with this challenge and not just a cosmetic assignment.

After becoming used to working with frameworks and libraries like [bootstrap](http://www.getbootstrap.com) and [bourbon](http://www.bourbon.io), it was nice to get back to writing pure javascript and html and building components from scratch.  I did use [Sass](http://sass-lang.com/) and [Compass](http://compass-style.org/) to organize and compile some neat CSS.  My favorite thing about using sass is that you can create partials for your different sass files and just import the files into your main sass file.  So I can keep all of my sass for my nav bar in a separate file for all of the sass in my sidebar tab window.

Well that's it for now, peace out.  Thanks for reading this boring post about my coding challenge, here's an old clip from last summer in New York.

<blockquote class="instagram-media" data-instgrm-version="4" style=" background:#FFF; border:0; border-radius:3px; box-shadow:0 0 1px 0 rgba(0,0,0,0.5),0 1px 10px 0 rgba(0,0,0,0.15); margin: 1px; max-width:658px; padding:0; width:99.375%; width:-webkit-calc(100% - 2px); width:calc(100% - 2px);"><div style="padding:8px;"> <div style=" background:#F8F8F8; line-height:0; margin-top:40px; padding:50% 0; text-align:center; width:100%;"> <div style=" background:url(data:image/png;base64,iVBORw0KGgoAAAANSUhEUgAAACwAAAAsCAMAAAApWqozAAAAGFBMVEUiIiI9PT0eHh4gIB4hIBkcHBwcHBwcHBydr+JQAAAACHRSTlMABA4YHyQsM5jtaMwAAADfSURBVDjL7ZVBEgMhCAQBAf//42xcNbpAqakcM0ftUmFAAIBE81IqBJdS3lS6zs3bIpB9WED3YYXFPmHRfT8sgyrCP1x8uEUxLMzNWElFOYCV6mHWWwMzdPEKHlhLw7NWJqkHc4uIZphavDzA2JPzUDsBZziNae2S6owH8xPmX8G7zzgKEOPUoYHvGz1TBCxMkd3kwNVbU0gKHkx+iZILf77IofhrY1nYFnB/lQPb79drWOyJVa/DAvg9B/rLB4cC+Nqgdz/TvBbBnr6GBReqn/nRmDgaQEej7WhonozjF+Y2I/fZou/qAAAAAElFTkSuQmCC); display:block; height:44px; margin:0 auto -44px; position:relative; top:-22px; width:44px;"></div></div><p style=" color:#c9c8cd; font-family:Arial,sans-serif; font-size:14px; line-height:17px; margin-bottom:0; margin-top:8px; overflow:hidden; padding:8px 0 7px; text-align:center; text-overflow:ellipsis; white-space:nowrap;"><a href="https://instagram.com/p/sdg0m8ArqE/" style=" color:#c9c8cd; font-family:Arial,sans-serif; font-size:14px; font-style:normal; font-weight:normal; line-height:17px; text-decoration:none;" target="_top">A video posted by @chasedoerflinger</a> on <time style=" font-family:Arial,sans-serif; font-size:14px; line-height:17px;" datetime="2014-09-02T23:13:08+00:00">Sep 2, 2014 at 4:13pm PDT</time></p></div></blockquote>
<script async defer src="//platform.instagram.com/en_US/embeds.js"></script>
