---
layout: post
title: What is Rails?!
---

If you have ever been interested in computer programming, then chances are you have heard of Ruby.  If you have heard of Ruby, then you have probably also heard of Ruby on Rails.  What is the difference between the two?  Is it just another word for the same thing?  Well, if you are like me then you probably did think they were the same...but I've got news for you, THEY'RE NOT!

Ruby is a programming languge - it is dynamic, reflective and object oriented.  Rails is a web application development framework that is written in the programming language, Ruby.  So, while they are not the same thing, they are still used together.  Rails is designed to make programming web applications much easier!  Rails does this by making assumptions about what every developer needs to get started - and much like all developments in computer programming, it allows you to write less code and be a bit more lazy!  Excellent!
Rails has a philosophy made up of two major guiding principles

<h3>1) Don't Repeat Yourself</h3>
You should be familiar with this by now...for a concept that is centered around not repeating yourself, I feel like I have repeated myself many times talking about this idea.  DRY is a shorter and cooler way of saying don't repeat yourself.  This simply means that by not writing the same information over and over again, our code is more maintainable, more extensible and less buggy.

<h3>2) Convention over Configuration</h3>
Rails has opinions about the best way to do many things in a web application.  Rather than configurating every last minute detail of the files, Rails will default to a set of conventions and build out specific files rather than you building each one.  Rails knows what it's doing.

So, what does this all mean?  Well, rails is a framework...kind of like a template.  When you use Ruby with Rails, you are using Ruby to build based off of what Rails has provided.  When you start a new Rails project, many of the common files used in a web application are automatically created for you...which cuts down on a ton of time!

So, in conclusion, Rails is a skeleton of your web application.  If we are starting at "A" and trying to get to "Z", think of Rails as starting our project somewhere around "M".  Rails gets us halfway there by starting us out with many of the basic necessities of a functioning application.  That is all for now, PEACE!