---
layout: post
title: All These Values!
---
##Values that I Value
<ul>
  <li>Ambition</li>
  <li>Control</li>
  <li>Community</li>
  <li>Compassion</li>
  <li>Decisiveness</li>
  <li>Efficiency</li>
  <li>Empathy</li>
  <li>Peace</li>
  <li>Persistence</li>
  <li>Self-reliance</li>
</ul>


I value all of these values, durr that's why they're values. I try to live up to these values as much as I can but I obviously struggle as all people do.  One value in particular that is important to me is empathy.  In order to have a healthy and well functioning society, we need to understand where everyone is coming from.  Getting outside of your own perspective and understanding another person's frame of reference is a big part of building and maintaining positive relationships.
###Advice
The last topic that somone asked for my advice on was pertaining to career decisions.  I definitely want to give advice that emphasizes ambition and persistence when it comes to professional aspirations, but also an overall peace that isn't destroyed by a nonstop drive to work.  But in all advice, I think the key is empathy and understanding where that person is coming from.  Advice is one thing, and delivering that advice effectively is another.
###Values and Stereotype Threat
I feel good when I think about my values.  I'm very critical of myself, but I think I live well by these values each day.  I think these values can help mediate stereotype threat when it occurs.  For the most part, all of these values fly in the face of stereotype threat.  By surrounding yourself with others who stick to these values you should be less likely to be feel any type of threat by stereotype.
When you are experiencing stereotype threat, a good exercise is to just remember who you are and what you want.  Be persistent.  You are where you are becuase that is where you want to be.  You are who you are because that is who you want to be.