---
layout: post
title: Git Your Ass Over Here!
---

Ay wassuuuup!  Welcome to the first post of my technical blog that I am starting as part of my attendance for Development Bootcamp!  I'm pretty stoked to be going through this program.  I don't know how many people actually read my tweets or how many people will see this and be like, "What is up with John?  He's all of a sudden tweeting about computer stuff everyday, IDGI."  Well, I'm doing a 19-week "Bootcamp" style programming school so that I can learn some new stuff, improve on the little bit of programming knowledge I already have, and make some really cool stuff.

Today, as part of the week 1 curriculum, I am going to introduce you to a few things I have been learning about and messing with over the last few days, so prepare to learn something...ok?
Have you ever messed with that weird program in your Apps folder called Terminal?  It's the one that lets you type green characters, set on a black background...looking kinda like the Matrix?  Well that thing lets you talk directly to your computer and tell it to do stuff.  You use the Terminal to access a Shell, which is the point of contact between a user and the computer's operating system.  You talk to the shell with commands you enter on this screen, the shell interprets your commands and talks to the OS, the OS then responds and sends a message back through the shell to communicate with you on the screen.  Its pretty cool!

Another tool we use quite often is called Sublime Text, which is what's known as a text editor.  A text editor is used to edit text.  Lol, nah for real, we use this to write our code - its kind of like Microsoft Word, but for writing code.  Sometimes these lines of code can be really, really long and need to be edited quite often - we use something known as Git to manage the changes.  Git is what is known as an open-source version control system.  This means that it tracks the changes made to your code throughout the lifetime of a project.  You can save your work whenever you want and when you do this, it creates a checkpoint that you can always go back to if you make a big mistake in the future and need to "reset" to that previous version.

GitHub is another big piece of the pie in the first week here at Development Bootcamp.  GitHub and Git are not the same thing.  GitHub is a web-based hosting service for your Git repository - basically like a cloud for all of your projects and code.  It's not just hosting though, there is a social aspect to it too.  GitHub allows you to share your projects with other people who have accounts, making it easy for developers to work together on the same projects and share code.  GitHub is really cool.
Well, thats about it - you should be caught up now.  peace out.
