---
layout: post
title: Chef's in the Kitchen!
---

  This is my first cultural blog post about my experience here at Dev Bootcamp so far.  First, let me give you a little background on myself and where I'm coming from as I take part in this journey with you all.  I have been interested in web development for quite awhile - I started building Wordpress based websites when I was in college back in North Carolina, where I'm from.  I studied search engine optimization and online marketing, so in my spare time I built niche focused websites that were monetized though things like Google Adsense and  eBay Partner Network.

  I always focused more so on building content and capturing online traffic instead of how the code I was copying and pasting was actually working.  As long as the site was working and looked decent, my developer cap came off and my content creator/marketing cap came on.  So this became my thing and has been a part-time gig to me for the past eight years or so.   The easiest way to describe this job to my 65 year old parents has always just been, "I'm building websites," but whenever I say that or they refer to me as a web developer, I sort of feel like an imposter because I don't really consider myself knowledgeable or skilled enough to have that title; I'm just getting by with the many, many resources the internet makes available.  In addition to this, I also run an online store for a company back in NC and do some freelance web work/eCommerce consulting here in NY, but like I said, I don't really feel like I know anything compared to what I know I can learn through completing this course.  I like to compare my "Web development career" to a pizza shop, and so far I've sorta been selling premade frozen pizzas...but now I want the skills to make that shit from scratch.


  So with that being said, I can apply this to the fireside chat with Shereef in that, I am coming into this thinking I know a little something, but at the same time nothing at all when compared to what would make me feel qualified to call myself a web developer.  I'm definitely all about going into this with a kitchen mentality - I know that it is up to us to make this happen.  We are being provided all the ingredients to make some great things, and we are only going to get out of this experience as much as we put in!

  Speaking of ingredients in this kitchen, Dev Bootcamp has some excellent offerings in the helpful resources department.  I have already utilized the office hours feature earlier this week which was a great help (shout out to Ismail).  I plan to engage in this experience the fullest extent - I am going to break out of my normally introverted shell and talk to people, ask questions and get everything I want out of this ride.

  I'm very excited about the focus on improved learning techniques - I have already started implementing things like the Pomodoro Technique and I definitely feel like I'm be more efficient with my time and focus.  The opportunity not only learn how to program, but learn how to learn in such a positive environment is one of the main ideas that attracted me to DBC over the other bootcamp style schools here in NY. My impression so far has been exactly what I was expecting and I'm thoroughly enjoying it every step of the way.
